SHOTPLAN(1)                      User Commands                     SHOTPLAN(1)

NAME
       Shotplan  -  Test  plan execution tool providing screenshots and videos
       reporting

SYNOPSIS
       shotplan OPTIONS [ <SHOTPLAN PATH> [ <PLAN NAME> [ ANY ] ] ]

       Arguments:

       <plan file path>

              The shotplan file where the tests are defined (YAML format)

       [<plan name>]

              Optional: the name of the test (shot) plan to  execute  (instead
              of all).

       [<any string>]

              Optional:  the providing of any third argument indicates only to
              run the last step of the specified shot plan.

       OPTIONS:

       --cat

              List available categories

       --debug

              Activates debug logs

       --force-defaults

              Forces default values for required user input to be used and  do
              not ask user to enter a value

       --from =STRING

              The test plan from which to start the test execution

       -C =STRING

              Test category to run

       -F, --filelist

              Prints  the  list  of  output  files (images and videos) as they
              would have been generated during plan execution.

       -M, --manpage

              Generates command samples for manpages based on the shot plan

       -P, --planids

              Prints the logical Ids of all defined test plans.

       -R, --report

              Switch on generation of the AsciiDoc report fragments which  in‐
              clude screenshots and videos

       -T, --no-report

              Switch off generation of the AsciiDoc report fragments which in‐
              clude screenshots and videos (default)

       -a

              Switch off interactivity

       -i

              Switch on interactivity (default)

       -y

              Assume 'Yes' when prompted for confirmation

DESCRIPTION
       shotplan is a tool for implementing full application test benches  with
       automated  test  execution,  output  verification  and  reporting incl.
       screenshooting and video capturing.

       The tests are run in sequence from a test plan file in YAML format,  in
       which tests are programmed and controlled via bash scriptlets.

       A  test  plan splits into a sequence of test cases, in which a sequence
       of numbered test steps are defined.

       shotplan reports about each executed test step and its  result  on  the
       standard  output,  including  a timestamped identification banner which
       specifies version and revision control numbers of  tested  items,  test
       tools and dependencies.

       Shotplan  takes its name from the fact that the tool is also capable of
       producing screenshots and video captures for executed tests.

       shotplan is initially designed and used to automate  tests  for  system
       commands and user CLI applications.

       Notwithstanding, thanks to graphical automation tool like 'xdotool', it
       is perfectly foreseeable to test graphical  application  by  triggering
       mouse  and  keyboard  events.  NOTE: A full automated test process of a
       graphical app would also require to compare the graphical output with a
       reference image. This feature is not available yet.

EXAMPLES
       Testing with reporting (screenshots)

              $ shotplan --report

       Testing without reporting

              $ shotplan --T

       Testing starting from a certain plan, use option --from, e.g

              $ shotplan --from-init

AUTHOR
       Written by Michel MEHL

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <michel.mehl@slashetc.fr>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2026 Michel MEHL. All rights reserved.

       License terms written down in file LICENSE.txt

Shotplan 1.1.2                   octobre 2026                      SHOTPLAN(1)
